In the earlier lesson we generated lines.
Now we want to generate some additional cars that we can use and output those values to the player.
So we've got our lines.
And when we refresh this sort of breakout of that going back into our application into our CSX we should
create some cart some additional cars as well so we can just call them enemy
and we're going to update the background color for them as we're generating them out.
So they're going to have the same properties as our initial cars.
They're the same size and they're going to have the same feel and look to those so going into our application.
So just as we created some lines we should also create some additional cars.
So within the start game we created our lines here.
Let's take this what we did earlier and also create.
So just having the player we're going to add in and add some cars as well.
So we'll call them enemy.
So these are divs and these are the enemy elements
we certainly don't need 10.
How about we do three for now and we're going to generate them to have Y to be equal to.
And I won't start them off had a negative position so they're not already on the screen so have them
at Y minus.
And let's use a random value here for that we're going to generate.
We're going to use that JavaScript math function so math
so math
floor math random times two hundred or two times five.
And they gonna multiply it by negative 1.
So it's gonna give us a random position for I of that particular element
so they're all essentially gonna be off screen once we start up
and add in the enemy y position there as its starting point and then add them into the game area and
also going to set the background color so we can distinguish them to style and background color so we'll
set them all to red for now.
So they're all red.
Now we need to get them moving.
So just as we moved the lines we can create a function in our play game to move our enemies so move
enemy and I'll copy out the function where we move the lines.
And sort of move lines update that to move enemy
and selecting those elements that have a class of enemy just going down to make sure.
So instead of adding a class of line we need to add the class of enemy to them.
Give it more of a generic object name there.
So element and we can keep item there as well.
And instead of subtracting fifteen hundred from it let's update this and set it to be equal to.
We could also keep the subtracting of the fifteen hundred and we also need to add in the positioning
of the item to the left.
So adding in a style left this is we can use math floor and math random and let's multiply it by 150
because we know we've got two hundred width for the road.
Don't forget to add in the picks and then we've got 50 with for the width of the car.
And we also need to use this down where we've generated the element so not just top we need to also
specify that we are adding in left positions so they're not all within that same line and we can generate
this randomly as well.
So instead of having the math value here adds random so we can space it out a little bit better going
to remove that and set this to X plus 1 and then multiply that by a value of six hundred.
So that will space out our enemies a little bit better and we can keep the enemy x y value the same.
So you can see that they've been generated and there is spacing between them and they're always randomly
positioned so either on the left or the right and then that one kind of showed up a little bit unexpectedly.
So we need to also take that into consideration where we're going to multiply it and we're going to
subtract six hundred from it.
So going up just do a quick adjustment here and we're going to set the value of y to be negative six
hundred so try that out run through that one more time and now we've got some better spacing between
the enemies you can see that they're always coming right off of the top.
So go ahead and add this into your application and you'll be ready to move on to the next part where
we're going to be doing collision detection and that's going to be wrapping up the game.
We're going to check to see if this car is overlapping any one of these enemies and if it is then the
game's over.